# Contributing

## Development environment

We provide a `default.nix` file that defines the right development environment
if you already are a Nix user and wish to contribute to the package. This
development environment will provide the required R packages to allow you to
work on `{rixpress}`. This development environment is pinned to a specific
`nixpkgs` commit, so it does not reflect the current status on CRAN. This is why
it's also important to make sure that contributions work on `rhub`.

## Unit and end-to-end tests

This package has many unit tests, but some functionality cannot be reliably
tested using unit tests. To solve this issue, we set up another repository
called [b-rodrigues/rixpress_demos](https://github.com/b-rodrigues/rixpress_demos/tree/master)
which has many examples that run on GitHub Actions each time a commit is pushed
to `{rixpress}`’s GitHub repository.

## Submitting PRs

PRs are very welcome, just make sure unit tests pass if you open one. Ideally,
you should also clone
[b-rodrigues/rixpress_demos](https://github.com/b-rodrigues/rixpress_demos/tree/master)
and try to run some examples using your changes. If you still want feedback but
tests don’t pass, then set the PR to draft.

If you’ve added a feature, make sure to document it and add a corresponding unit
test as well.

We don't mind PRs with code generated by LLMs, but be mindful of the following:

- make sure you understand and are happy to be responsible for every line of
  code as if you had written it yourself;
- make sure the code uses a similar coding style (for example, we don’t use
  global veriables);
- LLMs sometimes generate very verbose code to achieve simple things, try to
  simplify the code as much as possible.

## Discussions

For general discussion about the package, open a discussion on
<https://github.com/b-rodrigues/rixpress/discussions>. To submit bug reports or
request features, open an issue <https://github.com/b-rodrigues/rixpress/issues>.
